---
layout: post
title: My Experience At Bloc
---

In the month and a half that I've been a student with Bloc, I feel like I am learning well at a decently fast pace and being exposed to newer frameworks that were much more difficult to try to learn on my own, so I'm fairly happy with where I am. The first month for me was mostly a review of languages and concepts that I already understood, with the exception of Git and certain more advanced concepts in Javascript like closures. When I began the AngularJS unit though, things got a little harder.

I had used Angular once before, but it was in the context of a boring, static website, and not a single page application. My angular implementation only required one controller and no services, just a bunch of different routes. The Bloc App I built was a music player in the browser, in which you could select multiple albums or songs and play, pause, skip, mute, etc. In this scenario we had multiple views that required controllers and services to connect the data between each of them, and this was much more difficult to manage and to conceptually understand what was happening to variable data as I was passing it around my application.   

The next project that I completed was a chat application which stored chats and chatrooms as data in a Firebase database. This was an interesting experience for me, because I had worked with databases before using PHP and was used to making ajax requests to a PHP file that interacted with the database, but the angularFire script took care of all of that for me, and it was very interesting to see data being updated automatically from a database much like a data binding in Angular. It's easy to understand why these frameworks have taken off and are used in many applications now, because of the sheer convenience of using them. I feel like using Angular comes with a steep learning curve especially when thinking about how to structure your application optimally, but the payoffs are great. 

Truthfully, the experience at Bloc is difficult. I would much rather be in a classroom setting for 8 hours a day where I can ask questions and get an immediate answer, and where the material is a little bit more guided - or at least if the material is not guided, I know that it is not guided. In some of the current lessons, we are told to install a new technology without being told what it is or how to do so. For example, in our portfolio project that I am working on right now, I was told to install Jekyll by writing the command `gem install jekyll`. I have no idea what gem is, and it didn't come installed on my computer, so I was unable to follow the commands. I did some research and found out that gem is a part of rubygems, which means that I have to install that. After following instructions to do so, I was still unable to run gem. My assumption was that I did not have Ruby installed, which turned out to be correct. I had to figure out what Ruby was and install it on my own - an issue that took several hours to figure out and would have been easily solved if I had been in the classroom and been able to ask a question. (Or wouldn't have existed because the curriculum would be set by the teacher and they would know that I would not have Ruby installed.) It's a lot more difficult to sit down with your mentor and discuss everything you need to discuss or ask him/her to look over your code, especially when it might take half an hour to review the code in the first place and you don't have that much time to discuss with them. 

At the very least, Bloc is providing structure to learning, meaning that I'm not on my own wondering where I should go next or what I should learn next, which is the hardest thing about trying to do it on your own, which I appreciate. I have no doubt that I will learn more here than I would on my own, and hopefully I'll actually do it well along the way. 


